---
layout: post
title:  "RESTful (REpresentational State Transfer)"
date:   2018-10-12 14:46:00 +0800
categories: restful
---
## REST Contraints
#### Uniform interface
- Resource-Based (e.g. Database, files)
    - Identified by URIs (e.g. URL)
    - Separate from their representation(s)
- Manipulation of Resources Through Representations
    - Representation represent the (partial) state of resource (e.g. HTML, JSON, XML, CSV...)
    - The representation that client holds contains enough information to modify or delete the resource on the server if it has permission to do so. (HTTP response body)
    - Separate from resource(s)
- Self-descriptive Messages
    - Each request contains enough context to process the message(Self-descriptive messages)(e.g. HTTP request with method GET, PUT, POST, DELETE...)
- Hypermedia as the Engine of Application State (HATEOAS)
    - Clients deliver state via body contents, query-string parameters, request headers and the requested URI (the resource name).
    - Services deliver state to clients via body content, response codes, and response headers.

#### Stateless
- Server contains no client state
- Any session state is held on the client

#### Client-server
- Assume a disconnected system
- Separation of concerns
    - Clients are not concerned with data storage
    - Servers are not concerned with the user interface or user state
- Uniform interface is the link between the two

#### Cacheable
- Responses must therefore, implicitly or explicitly, define themselves as cacheable, or not, to prevent clients reusing stale or inappropriate data in response to further requests.
- Well-managed caching partially or completely reduce client–server interactions, which improving perfomance.

#### Layered system
- Client don't know if there is a caches, proxies, gateways, firewalls  behind the server.

#### Code on demand(Optional)
- Server can temporarily extend client
- Client executes logic (e.g. JavaScript)

## REST API Quick Tips
#### Use HTTP Verbs to Make Your Requests Mean Something
<table>
<tr><th>method</th><th>usage                                             </th></tr>
<tr><td>GET   </td><td>Read a specific resource (by an identifier)       </td></tr>
<tr><td>POST  </td><td>Create a new resource                             </td></tr>
<tr><td>PUT   </td><td>Update a specific resource (by an identifier)     </td></tr>
<tr><td>DELETE</td><td>Remove/delete a specific resource by an identifier</td></tr>
</table>

#### Provide Sensible Resource Names
- Use identifiers in your URLs instead of in the query-string.
    - Use `/users/:id` rather than `/api?type=user&id=12345`
- Leverage the hierarchical nature of the URL to imply structure.
    - `/events/:event_id/attendees/:id`
    - `/users/:user_id/orders/:id`
- Design for your clients, not for your data.
- Resource names should be nouns. Use the HTTP methods to specify the verb portion of the request.
    - `/users` with `GET` rather than `/getUsers`
- Use plurals in URL segments to keep your API URIs consistent across all HTTP methods.
    - Use `/users/`, `/users/:user_id` rather than `/users/`,`/user/:user_id`
- Avoid using collection verbiage in URLs.
    - Use `/customers` rather than `/customer_list`
- Use lower-case in URL segments, separating words with underscores (`_`) or hyphens (`-`). Some servers ignore case.
- Keep URLs as short as possible, with as few segments as makes sense.

#### Use HTTP Response Codes to Indicate Status
- 2xx Success
    - __200 OK__ The most common code. Used to  indicate success.
    - __201 CREATED__ Successful creation occurred.
        - Often used for `POST` or `PUT`
        - Set the Location header to redirect to newly-created resource.
        - Response body content may or may not be present.
    - __204 NO CONTENT__ Indicates success but nothing is in the response body
        - Often used for `DELETE` or `PUT`
- 3xx Redirects
    - __304 NOT MODIFIED__ Just use cache
- 4xx Client Error
    - __400 BAD REQUEST__ Error code for when fulfilling the request would cause an invalid state.
        - Domain validation errors, missing data
    - __401 UNAUTHORIZED__ Error code response for missing or invalid authentication token.
    - __403 FORBIDDEN__ Error code for when the user is not authorized to perform the operation or the resource is unavailable for some reason.
    - __404 NOT FOUND__ Used when the requested resource is not found or doesn't exist
        - If there was a 401 or 403 that, for security reasons, the service wants to mask.
    - __405 METHOD NOT ALLOWED__ Used to indicate that the requested URL exists, but the requested HTTP method is not applicable.
        - The Allow HTTP header must be set when returning a 405 to indicate the HTTP methods that are supported(e.g."Allow: GET, POST, HEAD").
    - __409 CONFLICT__
Whenever a resource conflict would be caused by fulfilling the request. Duplicate entries, such as trying to create two customers with the same information, and deleting root objects when cascade-delete is not supported are a couple of examples.
- 5xx Server Error
    - __500 INTERNAL SERVER ERROR__ For errors that the consumer cannot address from their end.
        - Never return this intentionally. The general catch-all error when the server-side throws an exception.

#### Offer different format
Let consumers switch between formats using the `HTTP Accept header`, or by just changing an `extension`.
/users/:id(.format)
#### Create Fine-Grained Resources
It's much easier to create larger resources from individual resources than it is to create fine-grained or individual resources from larger aggregates. As a result, start with small, easily defined resources, providing CRUD functionality on those. And create those use-case-oriented, chattiness-reducing resources later.
#### Consider Connectedness
APIs become more self-descriptive and discoverable when links are returned in the response. For collections returned in a response that support pagination, 'first', 'last', 'next' and 'prev' links at a minimum are very helpful.
## Example
<table>
<tr><th>method</th><th>URL                      </th><th>CRUD  </th><th>Action                 </th><th>Response   </th></tr>
<tr><td>GET   </td><td>/users(.:format)         </td><td>Read  </td><td>all users page         </td><td>200        </td></tr>
<tr><td>GET   </td><td>/users/new(.:format)     </td><td>Read  </td><td>create user page       </td><td>200        </td></tr>
<tr><td>GET   </td><td>/users/:id/edit(.:format)</td><td>Read  </td><td>edit user page         </td><td>200        </td></tr>
<tr><td>POST  </td><td>/users(.:format)         </td><td>Create</td><td>Create a new user      </td><td>201        </td></tr>
<tr><td>GET   </td><td>/users/:id(.:format)     </td><td>Read  </td><td>Retrieve a specfic user</td><td>200|404    </td></tr>
<tr><td>PUT   </td><td>/users/:id(.:format)     </td><td>Update</td><td>Replace a specfic user </td><td>200|204|404</td></tr>
<tr><td>PATCH </td><td>/users/:id(.:format)     </td><td>Update</td><td>Modify a specfic user  </td><td>200|204|404</td></tr>
<tr><td>DELETE</td><td>/users/:id(.:format)     </td><td>Delete</td><td>Destroy a specfic user </td><td>200|204|404</td></tr>
</table>

## References
- [REST API Tutorial](https://www.restapitutorial.com/)
