---
layout: post
title:  "CSS"
date:   2018-12-13 14:01:00 +0800
categories: css 
---

## selector
#### Simple selectors
- __*__ : `Universal selector` selects all elements.
- __type__ : `Type selector` selects all elements of that type. Type refers to the type of tag(e.g. `body`, `div`, `p`...)
- __#id__ : `ID selector` selects a __single__ element with a specific `id`(same as __[id=val]__).
- __.class__ : `Class selector` selects all elements that have a specific class(same as __[class~=val]__).

#### Attribute selectors
- **[attr]** : Select all elements that have a specific attribute.
- **[attr=val]** : Select all elements that have a specific attribute value.
- **[attr^=val]** : Select all elements that __starts__ with specific characters.
- **[attr\$=val]** : Select all elements that __ends__ with specific characters.
- **[attr\*=val]** : Select all elements that __contains__ with specific characters.
- **[attr~=val]** : Select all elements that contains with specific __word__ which space-separated with other characters.
- **[attr\|=val]** : Select all elements that have a attribute value `val` or start with `val-`

## Pseudo-classes
- **:hover**
- **:focus**
- **:not()** : except
- **:empty**
- **:only-child**
- **:only-of-type**
- **:first-child**
- **:first-of-type**
- **:last-child**
- **:last-of-type**
- **:nth-child()**
- **:nth-of-type()**
- **:nth-last-child()**
- **:nth-last-of-type()**

<pre>
How "nth" work with arguments?
   2   : second one    (index start with 1)
   even: even ones
   odd : odd ones
   n   : 0, 1, 2, 3... (everyone)
   n+4 : 4, 5, 6...    (>=4)
   -n+4: 4, 3, 2, 1... (<=4)
   3n  : 0, 3, 6...    (every 3)
   3n+5: 5, 8, 11...   (from 5 every 3)
</pre>
## Pseudo-elements
- **::before** : work like first child(must set `content` to take effect)
- **::after** : work like last child(must set `content` to take effect)
- **::first-letter**
- **::first-line**
- **::selection**

## Selector lists and Combinators
- **,** : `Selector list` (or)
- **>** : `Child combinator` (child)
- **space** : `Descendant Selector` (child, grandchild...)
- **+** : `Adjacent sibling combinator` (next sibling)
- **~** : `General sibling combinator` (next sibling, next next sibling...) 

## Reference
1. [w3schools - CSS Selector Reference](https://www.w3schools.com/cssref/css_selectors.asp)
2. [CSS Diner - Where we feast on CSS Selectors!](https://flukeout.github.io/)
3. [30個你必須記住的CSS選擇器](https://code.tutsplus.com/zh-hant/tutorials/the-30-css-selectors-you-must-memorize--net-16048)
4. [CSS\|MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/zh-TW/docs/Web/CSS)
